participant: 906A29D0-6C1B-4A0D-88B1-3E7A2E6E1FCA
profile: anthropic-opus-4-8
independent: true
context: published-docs-only
completed_at: 2026-07-13T22:42:40Z
result: PASS
task: explain-limitation
candidate: clean-docs 1.0.0rc16

evidence:
  QUESTION: Does clean-docs revoke host network access from every process on
  the machine?

  ANSWER: No. clean-docs does not revoke host network access from every
  process on the machine, and it does not revoke network access even from
  the declared processes it launches. It is not an operating-system-level
  network control.

  What clean-docs does is narrower and applies ONLY to a declared command or
  plugin that it runs: it gives that process a copied repository, a
  temporary HOME, a temporary directory, PATH, and NO_COLOR (and no other
  environment variables), runs it without a shell, rejects repository
  symlinks, stops it at a timeout or 1 MB combined I/O limit, rejects
  secret-like output, and discards the copy afterward. Those controls do not
  include network isolation, and they have no effect on other, unrelated
  processes on the machine. Network isolation is assigned to the execution
  environment (the surrounding runner / OS), which is why the docs direct you
  to run untrusted declared code inside a network-blocked container or
  equivalent OS sandbox.

  CITATIONS (exact document and section):

  1. docs/SECURITY_MODEL.md -- section "## Host boundary" (line 26):
     "The process controls are not an operating-system sandbox. A declared
      executable can open a network connection or address an absolute host
      path if the surrounding runner permits it. Run untrusted declared code
      in a network-blocked container or equivalent OS sandbox. Keep local
      manifests limited to commands and plugins you would run directly."

  2. README.md -- section "## Current limits" (line 135):
     "Network isolation belongs to the execution environment; the [security
      model](docs/SECURITY_MODEL.md) defines the remaining OS boundary."

  Supporting scope (what the controls actually cover), docs/SECURITY_MODEL.md
  -- section "## Process controls" (line 20):
     "Every declared process receives a copied repository, temporary home,
      temporary directory, PATH, and NO_COLOR. clean-docs does not pass
      other environment variables. ... discards the copy after the result is
      parsed."

  These sections jointly establish that clean-docs neither claims nor
  provides machine-wide network revocation; that responsibility belongs to
  the host / execution environment.

documentation_gaps: none
