participant_id: 0a809d28-062e-4926-b12e-ac8f7022d641
profile: anthropic-opus-4-8
independent: true
context: published-docs-only
completed_at: 2026-07-14T01:25:57Z
task: explain-limitation
result: PASS

QUESTION: Does sourcebound itself revoke host network access for an
allowlisted (declared) process?

ANSWER: No. sourcebound does not itself revoke host network access for an
allowlisted process. Its process controls are not an operating-system
sandbox, so a declared (allowlisted) executable can still open a network
connection if the surrounding runner permits it. Network isolation is
assigned to the execution environment (the host / runner / OS), not to
sourcebound. That is why the docs instruct operators to run untrusted
declared code inside a network-blocked container or equivalent OS sandbox.

What sourcebound actually provides for a declared process is narrower: a
copied repository, a temporary HOME, a temporary directory, PATH, and
NO_COLOR (no other environment variables), no shell, symlink rejection, a
timeout / 1 MB combined I/O limit, secret-like-output rejection, and
discarding the copy afterward. None of those is network revocation.

CITATIONS (supplied document and section that define the boundary):

1. docs/SECURITY_MODEL.md -- section "## Host boundary" (line 26):
   "The process controls are not an operating-system sandbox. A declared
    executable can open a network connection or address an absolute host
    path if the surrounding runner permits it. Run untrusted declared code
    in a network-blocked container or equivalent OS sandbox. Keep local
    manifests limited to commands and plugins you would run directly."

2. README.md -- section "## Current limits" (line 153):
   "Network isolation belongs to the execution environment; the [security
    model](docs/SECURITY_MODEL.md) defines the remaining OS boundary."

These two sections are the canonical limitation: network isolation is the
execution environment's responsibility, not something sourcebound revokes.

Documentation defects encountered: none.
